This is a README file for Kaitlyn Cross's BIOS611 Final Project

### Background

The dataset used for this project is a scrape of metadata of all titles listed on the [Goodreads](https://www.goodreads.com/) website by Kaggle user Soumik. The data was last updated on March 9, 2020. The data for this project can be accessed [here](https://www.kaggle.com/jealousleopard/goodreadsbooks).

Goodreads is a website used for rating and tracking reading. Each entry is generated by individual users, and then can be added to shelves indicating if a user wishes to read the book, when they have read the book, and a rating and possible text review for books read. The dataset for this project focuses on book metadata (title, author(s), publication information) and the provides the count of ratings and text reviews for each title.

### Step-by-Step Process For Executing This Project

First, ensure that you have Docker and git downloaded and usable as your current user. If using a Windows machine, open the Docker application before you begin the steps below.

The following steps can be completed through the command line, or through standard point-and-click methods on your local machine:
- Create a clean file/directory to download this project into that is not the computer's root directory.
- Save the files provided at the latest commit of this repository into your directory.

Next, open your computer's shell scripting program and navigate to your project repository. [On a Windows computer, use PowerShell]

First, we will build a Docker image using our Dockerfile by running the code snippets below:

```
'docker build . -t bios611proj'
```
^This line creates a Docker image that customized the Rocker/verse image to include all programs and packages needed to execute this project
^NOTE - this Docker build can take a few minutes! 

Once the build is done running, execute this code snippet:

```
docker run -v $PWD:/home/rstudio -p 8787:8787 -e PASSWORD=test -t bios611proj
```
^This line initializes a container that has all the properties specified in the Dockerfile, and creates an Rstudio instance for you to interact with the project.

You can now navigate to your web browser and enter 'localhost:8787' in the address bar. This will take you to a login screen for Rstudio. Log in using:
	Username: rstudio
	Password: test

From here, select the "Terminal" tab. This is where we will use our makefile to execute the programs and generate our report.

To generate individual output, use this sytax:
```
make [TARGET.filetype]
```
Example: 
```
make author.Rdata
```

To generate the final report, use the code below:
```
make report.pdf
```